In the previous movie, we looked at correcting
Color and Tone and Skin on a couple of images
that really needed it and the results were
really dramatic.
Yet what about those images where things are
a little bit more subtle.
Well that's what we are going to work on in
this particular movie.
Open up the file Daniel.psd.
Once that's opened in Photoshop, press F to
go to Full Screen View mode.
Now this is a photograph that was captured
by one of my students in one of his early
classes at Brooks and it is a nice image
and I had him given a demo on working on this
image in Photoshop class.
I also asked him if we could use this in our
training and I think that this image will
work out well for us
because the need for the improvement here
is very subtle.
let's go ahead and double click the Zoom tool.
That will take this image to 100% so that
we can see the image in its entirety.
You really focus in on the face.
Now you will notice in the Layers palette,
there is a group there you can turn that on
to see how he is retouched this image
and if we zoom in even further heres our Before
and After basically clean up the image.
Now that looks really nice.
One of the things that I'm noticing is the
skin is a little bit uneven.
Here we see the reds underneath the eye, little
bit of red patchiness in the skin.
Well how do we fix that?
We use Hue/Saturation.
we will click on the Adjustment Layer icon
and choose Hue/Saturation, go with the Reds.
Now when I modify my Hue slider for my Reds
I'm going to notice that it is affecting the
entire image.
All of his skin is turning green.
Well how do I focus in on the specific tones
that I want to work on?
Well we can try our Eye Dropper tool and click
around the image and see, well don't work
on these tones and we can see
that it is a little bit less of an adjustment.
We can also try sampling the area that we
want to work on.
Yet one of the things we are noticing is this
isnt quite working for us.
This doesnt cut it.
So let's press the Option or the Alt Key and
choose Reset, that will reset our Hue/Saturation
adjustments.
Again that was the Option key on the Mac,
the Alt key on the PC that changes Cancel
to Reset.
I move that over a little bit so you can see
that.
Next, let's go back to the Reds.
Now modify the Hue, this will help us define
what we are working on and let's just try
manually to bring in these two points
and also to bring in our outside sliders here.
What this does is it changes the transition
from the actual color we are working on to
other colors and what we should start
to see is that we can really focus in on specific
areas of our image.
let's modify our Hue slider and one thing
that youre seeing is that I'm modifying,
in this case making it worse these areas that
I think are problematic.
Now, if the reach of those areas arent good
enough.
I'm going to go ahead and expand them a little
bit further.
You can see that it is going to reach out
a little bit further here and then even more
there
that one I need to be really careful of those
areas.
OK so the image doesnt look good.
But I will take my Hue back to 0.
I now know what are the areas I'm working
on.
I need to Desaturate just a tad.
I'm going to warm those areas up a little
bit.
I happened to know if I increased the Hue
slider just a tad bit; it will warm those
areas up.
let's look at our Preview.
Heres our Before and After.
it is evening out the skin tone.
let's click OK.
Now of course there are areas that it doesnt
look good, the lips in particular actually
it helped
out with those red veins in the eyes, that's
nice.
The red on the ears if you look at the Before
and After heres our Before heres our After.
Areas I'm paying attention to are the eyes,
the ears, the nose, the skin, looks great.
Click on the Mask and select the Brush tool.
Now I choose black for my color picker and
I'm going to invert those two colors by clicking
on this arrow which will allow me
to switch my foreground and background colors
and next paint was black on the lips that
I want to bring that color back
and then click the Eye on this Adjustment
layer to look at my Before and After to see
if any other areas need help and I would say
no, that looks really good.
Now that adjustment is incredibly subtle but
what it will actually do is make his skin
look smoother
and it will make the image much stronger.